# Hibernate: apply filtering by certain column for all requests to database
[Link to question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35741445/hibernate-apply-filtering-by-certain-column-for-all-requests-to-database)
**Creation Date:** 1456905433
**Score:** 2
**Tags:** java, hibernate, hql, hibernate-criteria
## Question Body
<p>In my database I have data belonging to different users.
In the code, requests to the database are made by different ways: </p>

<ul>
<li><p>using Criteria:</p>

<ul>
<li><p>from one place in code (common parent DAO)</p></li>
<li><p>from many places in code (children DAOs)</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>using HQL queries:</p>

<ul>
<li>same two approaches</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>

<p>Now, I want to be sure, that any programmer, whatever way he makes requests to DB, won't be able to make a mistake and forget about filtering data from any table by <code>user_id</code>. The value is a current user's <code>id</code>. (If a table doesn't have such column, meaning its data should be accessible for all users, then filtering should be ignored).</p>

<p>Ideally, this filtering would be performed automatically somewhere on a deeper level, rather than in code we write and rewrite. Is it possible?</p>

## Answers
### Answer ID: 35743092
<p>You can do something like this,</p>

<ol>
<li>Create a class called UserInterceptor which extends EmptyInterceptor</li>
<li>override the getEntityName method.</li>
<li>Get the Entity Class metadata. (You may inject sessionFactory into       EmptyInterceptor).</li>
<li>Get the properties and iterate it and get the user_id</li>
<li>Override onSave method and check for the user_id in the final query generated by HQL.</li>
</ol>

<p>This may not be the ideal solution but this way we can achieve your requirement.</p>

