# MySQL Rewrite Query without IN clause
[Link to question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40287188/mysql-rewrite-query-without-in-clause)
**Creation Date:** 1477578265
**Score:** 0
**Tags:** mysql
## Question Body
<p>I have a large sql query which is generated by some java code. I'm responsible for modifying one tiny portion of this query. The original query looked like this:</p>

<pre><code>SELECT
    fields
FROM
    table1, table2, table3
WHERE
    table1.key = table2.key
AND
    table2.key2 = table3.key2
AND
    (field1 = 'x')
AND
    (field2 = 'y')
</code></pre>

<p>My code area is responsible for appending an additional "AND" query to the existing query. Ideally, the other developers do not want me to adjust the "FROM" clause at all.</p>

<p>For the field2 = 'y' portion, there is now a new table with overriden values that they want to check. So I initially tried to write:</p>

<pre><code>AND
    (field2 = 'y' OR table1.key IN (SELECT key from override_table))
</code></pre>

<p>When I ran the above query, it ran for over 12 hours and had to be manually terminated by a DBA. Interestingly, the override_table is completely empty, so I don't think it is an indexing issue. Our database server is MySQL 5.0 and our IT department refuses to upgrade it to a newer version (upgrades have been requested numerous times and ignored).</p>

<p>I did try to run an explain on the query and there was nothing anomalous that came up. If I remove my 'OR table1.key IN' clause, the query goes back to running promptly. A colleague told me that MySQL 5 struggles with sub-selects. Is there any good way to rewrite the IN clause to avoid sub-selects in MySQL 5? Or any other advice about how to optimize this query?</p>

<p>Thanks.</p>

## Answers
### Answer ID: 40293525
<p>If you are allowed to only change there <code>where</code> clause, use this:</p>

<pre><code>SELECT
    fields
FROM
    table1, table2, table3
WHERE
    table1.key = table2.key
AND
    table2.key2 = table3.key2
AND
    (field1 = 'x')
AND
    (
        field2 = 'y' 
        OR exists (select 1 from override_table where key = table1.key)
    )
</code></pre>

<p>Just make sure that override_table.key is indexed and so is table1.key. <code>EXISTS</code> will be faster when there are several keys in override_table.</p>

<p>If you have option to test out the queries, try providing <a href="http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/index-hints.html" rel="nofollow">index hints</a> to the query as well along with <code>explain</code> to see how performance varies between hinting and no hinting, <code>exists</code> + hinting, <code>in</code> + hinting etc.</p>

